README.md, before:

# aria2-static-build

![Build and Release](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/actions/workflows/build_and_release.yml/badge.svg)

aria2 static build using musl and support many platforms.

## Download

You can download from [Continuous Build](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/releases/tag/continuous) (Weekly build from aria2 master branch with latest dependencies).

Or download from [latest release](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/releases/latest) build (Build from aria2 latest release version).

> **NOTE**: If you were executed in Android environment (maybe x86_64, arm, or aarch64), please follow the official aria2 Android README: https://github.com/aria2/aria2/blob/master/README.android
>
> Here is a sample:
>
> ```sh
> cat /etc/security/cacerts/* | ./aria2c --ca-certificate=/proc/self/fd/0 --async-dns-server=1.1.1.1 https://github.com/
> ```
>
> Please note `getprop net.dns1` does not work since Android 8, so you have to set a valid DNS manually.

## https certificates NOTE (Linux Only)

SSL certificates location may vary from different distributions. E.g: Ubuntu uses `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, but CentOS uses `/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt`.

It's impossible to detect certificates location in all distributions. See issue: [openssl/openssl#7481](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/issues/7481). But luckily most distributions may contains a symbol link `/etc/ssl/cert.pem` which point to the actual file path.

So I set compile options `--openssldir=/etc/ssl/` for openssl/libressl. Which works for most distributions.

If your environment contains file `/etc/ssl/openssl.cnf` or `/etc/ssl/cert.pem`, you were luckly and you can use my build out-of-box.

But if your environment does not contain any of the files, you have to do one of the following settings to make https request could work.

- add `--ca-certificate=/path/to/your/certificate` to `aria2c` or set `ca-certificate=/path/to/your/certificate` in `~/.aria2/aria2.conf`. E.g: `./aria2c --ca-certificate=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt https://github.com/`
- Or add `SSL_CERT_FILE=/path/to/your/certificate` environment variable before you run `aria2c`. E.g: `export SSL_CERT_FILE=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt; ./aria2c https://github.com/` or `SSL_CERT_FILE=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt ./aria2c https://github.com/`

> Reference for different distribution certificates locations: https://gitlab.com/probono/platformissues/blob/master/README.md#certificates

## Build locally yourself

Requirements:

- docker

```sh
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/build abcfy2/musl-cross-toolchain-ubuntu:${CROSS_HOST} /build/build.sh
```

All avaliable `CROSS_HOST` can be found in [Tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/abcfy2/musl-cross-toolchain-ubuntu/tags) page.

**NOTE**: Currently I only tested these tags:

- arm-unknown-linux-musleabi
- aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
- mips-unknown-linux-musl
- mipsel-unknown-linux-musl
- mips64-unknown-linux-musl
- x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
- i686-unknown-linux-musl
- x86_64-w64-mingw32
- i686-w64-mingw32

If you want to build for other platform, you may have to modify `build.sh` to suitable for your platform.

Cached build dependencies (`downloads/`), `build_info.md` and `aria2c` will be found in current directory.

You can set more optional environment variables in `docker` command like:

```sh
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/build -e USE_ZLIB_NG=0 -e USE_LIBRESSL=1 abcfy2/muslcc-toolchain-ubuntu:${CROSS_HOST} /build/build.sh
```

Optional environment variables:

- `ARIA2_VER`: build specific version of aria2, e.g: `1.36.0`. Default: `master`.
- `USE_CHINA_MIRROR`: set to `1` will use China mirrors, if you were located in China, please set to `1`. Default: `0`.
- `USE_ZLIB_NG`: use [zlib-ng](https://github.com/zlib-ng/zlib-ng) instead of [zlib](https://zlib.net/). Default: `1`
- `USE_LIBRESSL`: use [LibreSSL](https://www.libressl.org/) instead of [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/). Default: `0`. **_NOTE_**, if `CROSS_HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32` will not use openssl or libressl because aria2 and all dependencies will use WinTLS instead.

Commit message:

build: 🤖 add i686-unknown-linux-musl build

README.md, after:

# aria2-static-build

![Build and Release](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/actions/workflows/build_and_release.yml/badge.svg)

aria2 static build using musl and support many platforms.

## Download

You can download from [Continuous Build](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/releases/tag/continuous) (Weekly build from aria2 master branch with latest dependencies).

Or download from [latest release](https://github.com/abcfy2/aria2-static-build/releases/latest) build (Build from aria2 latest release version).

## Android users NOTE

If you were executed in Android environment (maybe x86_64, arm, or aarch64), please follow the official aria2 Android README: https://github.com/aria2/aria2/blob/master/README.android

Here is a sample:

```sh
cat /etc/security/cacerts/* | ./aria2c --ca-certificate=/proc/self/fd/0 --async-dns-server=1.1.1.1 https://github.com/
```

Please note `getprop net.dns1` does not work since Android 8, so you have to set a valid DNS manually.

## https certificates NOTE (Linux Only)

SSL certificates location may vary from different distributions. E.g: Ubuntu uses `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, but CentOS uses `/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt`.

It's impossible to detect certificates location in all distributions. See issue: [openssl/openssl#7481](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/issues/7481). But luckily most distributions may contains a symbol link `/etc/ssl/cert.pem` which point to the actual file path.

So I set compile options `--openssldir=/etc/ssl/` for openssl/libressl. Which works for most distributions.

If your environment contains file `/etc/ssl/openssl.cnf` or `/etc/ssl/cert.pem`, you were luckly and you can use my build out-of-box.

But if your environment does not contain any of the files, you have to do one of the following settings to make https request could work.

- add `--ca-certificate=/path/to/your/certificate` to `aria2c` or set `ca-certificate=/path/to/your/certificate` in `~/.aria2/aria2.conf`. E.g: `./aria2c --ca-certificate=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt https://github.com/`
- Or add `SSL_CERT_FILE=/path/to/your/certificate` environment variable before you run `aria2c`. E.g: `export SSL_CERT_FILE=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt; ./aria2c https://github.com/` or `SSL_CERT_FILE=/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt ./aria2c https://github.com/`

> Reference for different distribution certificates locations: https://gitlab.com/probono/platformissues/blob/master/README.md#certificates

## Fedora users NOTE

Fedora's openssl may contains some non-official patches and contains some configurations not support by this build openssl.

For this scenario, you can force set an `OPENSSL_CONF` environment variable to point to an invalid path before run `aria2c`. E.g:

```sh
OPENSSL_CONF=/tmp ./aria2c https://github.com/
```

This will not be interfered with by Fedora's openssl configuration.

## Build locally yourself

Requirements:

- docker

```sh
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/build abcfy2/musl-cross-toolchain-ubuntu:${CROSS_HOST} /build/build.sh
```

All avaliable `CROSS_HOST` can be found in [Tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/abcfy2/musl-cross-toolchain-ubuntu/tags) page.

**NOTE**: Currently I only tested these tags:

- arm-unknown-linux-musleabi
- aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
- mips-unknown-linux-musl
- mipsel-unknown-linux-musl
- mips64-unknown-linux-musl
- x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
- i686-unknown-linux-musl
- x86_64-w64-mingw32
- i686-w64-mingw32

If you want to build for other platform, you may have to modify `build.sh` to suitable for your platform.

Cached build dependencies (`downloads/`), `build_info.md` and `aria2c` will be found in current directory.

You can set more optional environment variables in `docker` command like:

```sh
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/build -e USE_ZLIB_NG=0 -e USE_LIBRESSL=1 abcfy2/muslcc-toolchain-ubuntu:${CROSS_HOST} /build/build.sh
```

Optional environment variables:

- `ARIA2_VER`: build specific version of aria2, e.g: `1.36.0`. Default: `master`.
- `USE_CHINA_MIRROR`: set to `1` will use China mirrors, if you were located in China, please set to `1`. Default: `0`.
- `USE_ZLIB_NG`: use [zlib-ng](https://github.com/zlib-ng/zlib-ng) instead of [zlib](https://zlib.net/). Default: `1`
- `USE_LIBRESSL`: use [LibreSSL](https://www.libressl.org/) instead of [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/). Default: `0`. **_NOTE_**, if `CROSS_HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32` will not use openssl or libressl because aria2 and all dependencies will use WinTLS instead.
